What role does empathy play in your life and how has it helped you?
  Currently the role that empathy plays in my life is it helps me connect with other people. It has helped me to be more approachable when I am
  out of my comfort zone to be able to strike up a conversation or make small talk. This was extremely helpful in past jobs because both required
  I talk with people I had never met before and start to build a relationship. This is also very helpful when dealing with my nieces and nephews
  because they are young and do not know how to verbalize their feeling when they get mad or frustrated. Empathy has made helped me take the time
  to talk with them and try and better a bad situation when they arise.

How does empathy help you build better software?
  Empathy helps build better software because it is not just looking at a problem from the outside and making changes. If we take a more human
  approach to software we can stop looking at ideal parameters of what should be and start looking at the human side of it. If we can start looking
  at software from another's point of view without judgement we can really create more in-tuned products. In example about the stationary
  video magnifier had the interviewer not used empty the needed changes may never have been noticed because it was already a great product. The interviewer
  had to look beyond what Lucy was saying and try to understand her needs.


Why is empathy important for working on a team?
  When working on a team not all members have the same collective experiences, this impacts how teams work. We as an individual do not have
  control how others feel but we do have control over our own feelings/views. If we can learn to put those aside we can step outside our
  comfort zones to really connect with team members and start to work as a collective to achieve a goal. This is not possible if
  we do not use empathy because we will only see our own view/side of things. To use empathy is to see the team member and try to understand them
  not just be limited to what they are saying.

Describe a situation in which your ability to empathize with a colleague or teammate was helpful.
  One situation when I was able to empathize with a colleague was when a colleague took a sabbatical for his wife to have surgery. He had
  told me she had cancer but did not want any of his accounts to know. He was not prepared for the sabbatical and I was missing a lot of
  important information but because I empathize with his situation I was not angry or irritated. I was able to make his accounts happy,
  give him privacy and also grown my knowledge while he was away. My team all understood that he was dealing with a tough time and made sure he
  had whatever was necessary to focus on his wife.

When do you find it most difficult to be empathetic in professional settings? How can you improve your skills when faced with these scenarios?
  I find it difficult to be empathetic when I feel my time is being wasted. If my boss calls a required meeting then spend the first 45 minutes talking
  about football I get really irritated. I need to step back and see that he is just trying to connect with the team and build a rapport. To improve my
  skills I will start looking at the situation from the leaders point of view. Start asking myself questions like why he may be doing
  what he is doing or what is the end goal of this meeting? 
